forget about the financial crisis a debt
meltdown and derivatives if you ignore
all of that you still have four shocks
that are occurring right now today and I
want to bring those to you you need to
be aware of this so that we can not only
identify the problem but we can Thrive
we can prosper as a result of this I
think it's important everybody pay close
attention let's begin the first thing I
want to talk about is the Slowdown
that's been going on it's pretty clear
you've got food inflation still high
around the world wherever you are you've
been seeing this in Europe it's been
crazy but just look anywhere United
States Canada Australia everybody's
experiencing this energy costs food
costs housing costs you know the deal
that's inflation you can't get away from
in most cases unless you are completely
off the grid and so on which very few
people too few people are and I think
it's important that we realize inflation
can't be resolved by central banks
because their only policy is is what
it's is inflation they print money to
quote unquote resolve an issue and it
never happens wow should we be surprised
then us business activity near stand
still in September and I'll show you the
charts Associated you could look at the
pmis and this is called the purchasing
managers index and basically all we're
looking at is manufacturing and services
when we look at pmis and this is a
really good indication of what's
happening in the economy broadly we
could look at that in the Euro Zone
that's this you could look at that in
the United States and it shows the exact
same thing it shouldn't be a surprise to
anybody because the world generally
moves in sync with each other while
there are variations this is the case
and here we are looking at that
declining same situation forward-looking
PMI components in the UK it's looking
actually really bad right now at this
time okay so we have this that's the
problem okay we realize it there is a
Slowdown why is this happening it's
interest rates it's inflation rates it's
people that are tapped out a trillion
dollars of debt in their credit card at
22 plus per interest yeah we get it okay
but now we have these four shocks and
these are going on right now today by
the way in addition to the derivatives
the debt all like all that Insanity that
I talk about all the time let's discuss
these four things right now and you
could see the US economy could withstand
one shock but four at once a year of
surprisingly strong growth is about to
be tested by a strike the possibility of
a government shutdown student loans and
oil prices will break that down one at a
time of course you have the strike
there's not just one strike they're
talking about the United Auto Workers
yes that's big employs a lot of people
there's a lot surrounding that as a
result more inflation because they're
going to pass that price uh you know the
costs associated with this down to the
consumer that's a whole different story
you've got the fact that there are many
different companies and you know these
groups that are going to say we are
going to go on strike just like UPS just
like others they're doing this and so
they want higher pay I understand I
would want higher pay too I would
request it if I could certainly and so
that means that they are going to in
fact get paid more in most cases when
they do strike this slows down the
economy temporarily depending how long
they go on strike for and then they get
paid higher usually what happens as a
result of that is that there are
increased costs increase the input costs
and you have to spend more money as a
result when uh you're the consumer
that's the way it goes that's the stats
and the data that I have seen all right
that's just the data uh the possibility
of a government shutdown uh you know
what that's the least likely out of all
these things cuz the government shutdown
never really happens they just stall it
okay we're going to push it into next
year we were talking about this before
and then they just pushed it ahead we
forget about it you know and then it
comes back in the news oh here we go the
new shutdown um if they do shut down
there not really a problem because
doesn't seem to you know anything they
want to really spend money on they do
and they just cut uh from you know the
future and so on never a good thing but
we shouldn't expect any anything from
government officials to begin with
student loans you probably know already
but what we're experiencing right now is
that after three years of been them not
having to pay these back that has to
happen right now and that is on average
$400 plus per month depending on what
kind of debt these people have so that's
400 bucks per month not going to the
other expenses that have to be paid you
cannot default on your student loans and
so right now we are see seeing that uh
at a level of $1.7 trillion do you not
think that's a big problem that is a
huge problem of course at the same time
oil prices Saudi Arabia has cut and many
other factors speculation and so on have
pushed the prices of oil past $90 a
barrel many say it's going to go not
just beyond $100 a barrel but
$150 a barrel that would put a strangle
hold on the economy these are the four
shocks what do you think about these is
the government shutdown really going to
happen I mean I want to know what you
think we got to also discuss what people
are doing about this I think that's
really important what you can do the
actions you can take but let me show you
some other stuff you could see City by
City what's going on and you're having
the uh this article right here on Wall
Street Journal watching the real estate
Bust from the Streets of San Francisco I
know that you have seen before so many
things I mean city's new landmarks are
struggling Office Buildings and a shop
shoing Mall losing tenants many examples
of this all over the place I don't like
to see it it is unfortunate but San
Francisco is not the only place New
Jersey's American Dream mega mall is
once again sinking in debt developers
hired restructuring lawyers and
financial advisors come on you're not
going to resolve this this is the same
situation sluggish traffic not getting
enough people in the door and you might
think to yourself wait a minute this is
a big business they've got the stores
they've got anchor stores they've got
people coming in whenever I go there's
all this money coming in no no it's all
based around debt you buy this mall and
you think it's it's bought no you have a
just like any piece of real estate they
have a small percentage they control the
whole thing but they only really own a
small percentage of that and it's all
financed by debt that debt is not 30
year debt that's not 25e debt this is
only a couple years in many cases and so
when you're borrowing up here now and
your income's not generating the way it
was before you are going to get crushed
and that's what's happening in this case
here but for others as well office and
Retail stay away that's my message to
you okay I would tell my friends and
family the same thing don't touch office
don't touch retail unless you want that
contrarian bet
that's a big contrarium bet okay that's
my message here we have it economic just
really quickly wanted to show you that
trouble ahead container shipping rates
are sinking further into the red this is
good if you want to ship right hey lower
cost that's great but what do it signal
yes that's right of course they say
transends Pacific spot rates have fallen
by double digits over the past month and
it just gives us an idea of the demand
less demand that means means of course
you've got less products coming in not a
good sign okay so we're pulling this out
of the pmis manufacturing Imports
exports you're looking at the freight
that's another Factor at the same time
you've got the consumer being hit by the
one two punch of credit card debt of
student loan debt this is unbelievable
and the threat of everything being shut
down a lot of the workers with their
strikes and their unions and so on at
the same time the government
this is big this really is big now I've
been talking fast I've been talking a
lot but you see what's going on here
there's more in that and that is robots
from China don't strike and so I think
the result of all of this is that these
companies are going to implement as many
robots Ai and automation as they
possibly can speaking of which here's
just a couple examples how big Tech AI
models nailed forecast for Hurricane Lee
a week in advance I don't know about you
but the forecast whenever I look at it
it is almost 100% wrong okay I'm like
all right what's the weather right now
let me see oh it's not raining I walk
outside my house it's raining you can't
even get it right now you can't even get
it right now forget about a week in
advance so these AI models that could
potentially put the whole weatherman job
out completely out of it and think about
all of the other
jobs that are associated with that right
a lot of that could be done all
autonomously all right it fills in the
websites with the information the TV
stations when you're watching it's got
the weather on the news that could be
done automatically where the data is
just automatically coming in and it's
going up on the screen no intervention
no humans needed so there's tech jobs
that could be lost as a result of it or
maybe you could argue that moves to from
one type of tech job into the AI Tech
job anyway point is there's a lot going
on this is just showing you the
self-driving taxis causing a massive
traffic jam in Texas I thought this was
funny um you could see they're having
some issues and that's just a little bit
of humor I wanted to throw in there and
as we look at this um I couldn't even
believe it but the bizarre New Frontier
for sell cultivated meat lion Burgers
tiger steaks and Mammoth
meatballs what are you kidding me yes
well if they have the cells this is a
mammoth meatball by the
way um y you heard me right made from
the DNA of a mammoth that's what's going
on today and that to me is worrisome for
so many different things but I'm just
trying to show you that the world is
changing please understand this know
that this is not going to change in an
instant what can you do what are the
actions you can take well I think it's
pretty obvious that there are steps that
we can move in the right direction I
covered this at the end of every video
If you appreciate this section what can
I do hit that thumbs up button when you
do you're supporting the channel but
also notifying others out there that
this is a good video so that does help a
lot trust me okay renegotiate all the
debt that you have Banks know what's
going on now they know a lot of people
are going to be defaulting on their debt
and so if you go to these companies
right now and say look I can't afford
this I know you want me to pay $1,000 of
debt or 10,000 whatever the case is I do
not have that and I believe you got to
approve that you say look I can offer
you x amount will you take that and you
can actually do a deal based on that
people are unaware of this but there are
so many big time people that you've
heard of successful people that do this
all the time they might have to claim
bankruptcy and they basically say look
here's the story we can only pay you 25
cents on the dollar and that company
says the lender says okay we'll take 25
cents because they know that through
bankruptcy they don't have to pay
anything so they can you can use that as
a bargaining chip essentially I think
people should just make more money I
think people should try their best um
but regardless you should be
renegotiating your debt if you are in
those circumstances where it's like dire
Strait's last line of defense talk to
all your providers everything your
internet your cell phone your insurance
do it stop waiting around this is real
you can get this done um you know ask
for a promotion right now do you have
any promotions what are the sales you
have right now we're coming into that
time of the year where there will be a
lot of promotions and that is the time
to do it renegotiate that ask for
financial hardship hey look I can't pay
my bills I'm having problems what can
you do for me send me over to your
loyalty department send me over to that
um you know whatever the retentions
department get me over to them I need
some assistance I you know I'm having
these troubles here's the reasons why
they will do this I was able to and by
the way with your insurance you might be
dealing with an insurance company when
you should be dealing with a broker
because a lot of times that broker is
going to shop around for you they're
going to get you the best rate when I
have my business insurance they quoted
me a price I went back to them I said
that price is way too high no I don't
like that they said okay we're going to
we're going to go we're going to do some
more digging the the rate they gave me
was 50% lower 50% lower all by asking
but if you're not asking you're not
going to get anywhere or people just
complain no that's not how to do it
you've got to seek out the right
information the right people the right
resources you can't just complain to the
company maybe the company that the guy
is not able to give you what you need so
you move to the next thing and you've
got to take those actions right now
today it is so absolutely essential
don't just sit there you've got to take
action it's extremely important the
absolute First Step that you've got to
take is go over to the money gps.com on
this website you're going to be able to
do your financial audit you're going to
be able to figure out your own personal
situation with compass it's totally free
so you go there the money GPS .c do that
it takes like 20 minutes to run through
the entire thing and I see too many
people that are sitting back and they
are not taking that action very big
mistake go to the money gps.com I've
made this free for you for a reason okay
take a look at it and of course the
comment of the day thank you very much
Ron I was talking to a friend whose
student loan is comeing due and they
couldn't afford the $650 a month payment
which will be restarting and requested a
loan lower payment good news it was
lowered to
$600 they are totally screwed now while
that is obviously an issue for people I
think it's important to just understand
that yeah you can renegotiate your debt
okay and you should be doing that
wherever you can uh I want to thank you
for that comment I want to thank you for
all of your comments out there let's
share let's talk about what we are doing
I'm going I'm building right now I'm
working on this where we're building the
case studies
which are going to apply to people in
these circumstances what actual people
have done and um I hope that will be
something that you find valuable I'll
see you on the next one take care